Source2Metal v3.3.1

CTG METAL
All decoded reachable book moves are preserved through neutral RAW lines, with result *.
No frequency filter, recommendations, learned weights or artificial results are imported.
METAL/Metal.pgn automatically combines CTG lines and selected GAME records without personal headers.
Use CTG lines for book import; they are not win/loss learning signals.
See the CTG JSON report for coverage, depth cutoffs and decoder limitations.

Use
Extract the RELEASE package and place the EXE beside the input files. Start it, choose a language, then RAW or RAW + METAL. Workers default to half the logical CPUs, rounded up (36 -> 18), and can be changed. RAW defaults to 100 plies; separate CTG depth 0 means no preset limit. Results are written under !Source2Metal_Output/<timestamp>. Sources are read-only.

RAW keeps GAME and BOOK sources separate. RAW + METAL also creates METAL/Metal.pgn. PGN/CBH/2CBH/BIN processing and the SyzygyCheck menu remain available. BIN still produces RAW only. The separately supplied Perfect2023 PGN is ready for book import; program packages contain no external books.

Each CTG output includes a JSON report and JSONL statistics. Positions/Edges count unique positions/moves; ExportedEdges counts represented moves; DepthCutMoves counts moves beyond the limit. RawFooter contains 33 original bytes in base64. Other statistics retain the legacy interpretation, not verified Fritz learning weights. They never enter neutral PGN.

Limits
Underpromotion and pawnless symmetry are unverified; recognized promotions assume a queen. CompleteCTG remains false. Coverage concerns position/move pairs, not every transposition path. Each position is processed at its shortest reachable depth. Cycles are represented without infinite expansion.
Perfect2023 passed independent PGN legality validation. The Windows test with Perfect2023 completed successfully: all 15,325 exported records were processed without illegal moves or parse errors. The Fritz book display was also investigated; no loss of 1...e5, 1...c6 or the Berlin route was found in the PGN. Full source and reproducible checks are in the separate SOURCE ZIP.

CLI: --input PATH --mode all --workers 18 --ctg-max-ply 0 --no-pause

PGN warning: if many records have an unusable result (such as *), processing continues automatically; no keyboard input is needed.
